Add release notes for K2.0 (#790)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2021-12-03-release-notes-2.0/index.md

---
title: "Kyma 2.0"
author:
  name: "Klaudia Grzondziel and Nina Hingerl, Technical Writers @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: "2.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-20"
---

We are happy to announce the release of Kyma 2.0! This major release brings a lot of fresh air to the project: we simplified and improved many areas, and also provided some brand new features, such as Kyma Dashboard. Read on to find out what Kyma 2.0 has to offer!

<!-- overview -->

> > **CAUTION:** In this release, authentication and authorization methods in Kyma have changed. Before upgrading to Kyma 2.0, read the [Migration Guide](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/migration-guide-1.25-2.0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **CAUTION:** In this release, authentication and authorization methods in Kyma have changed. Before upgrading to Kyma 2.0, read the [Migration Guide](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/migration-guide-1.24-2.0).
```
So it should be 1.24 after all...

Read our documentation to learn how to [expose services securely](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/04-operation-guides/security/sec-06-access-expose-kiali-grafana).

### Improved security for logs in Kyma Dashboard

Logs displayed in Kyma Dashboard are now based on the Kubernetes API server. This way, Loki is no longer exposed to the external network, which reduces the attack vector.

### Containerd support

With the update of Fluent Bit to version 1.8, we activated the new multiline support feature and configured support for Docker and containerd.

### Prometheus mTLS

By enabling Prometheus mTLS, you can improve the security in your Service Mesh and keep the strict mTLS mode for custom metrics. You don't have to weaken the authentication policy when you are scraping workloads deployed in the Service Mesh. Learn more in [Enable mTLS for custom metrics](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-03-istio-monitoring#enable-m-tls-for-custom-metrics).

### Observability services updated

> With this release, we have also refreshed Observability a bit (no pun intended). Fluent Bit has been upgraded to the latest version 1.8.10, Grafana got a minor upgrade to 7.5.11, Loki was bumped to 2.2.1, and OAuth2 Proxy was bumped to version 7.2.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this release, we have also refreshed Observability a bit (no pun intended). Fluent Bit has been upgraded to the latest version 1.8.10, Grafana got a minor upgrade to 7.5.11, Loki has been upgraded to 2.2.1, and OAuth2 Proxy was bumped to version 7.2.0.
```

> For more information, read the release notes for [Fluent Bit](https://fluentbit.io/announcements/v1.8.10/), [Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v7.5/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v7-5/), [Loki](https://github.com/grafana/loki/releases/tag/v2.2.1), and [OAuth2 Proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy/releases/tag/v7.2.0).```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, read the release notes for [Fluent Bit](https://fluentbit.io/announcements/v1.8.10/), [Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v7.5/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v7-5/), [Loki](https://github.com/grafana/loki/releases/tag/v2.2.1), and [OAuth2 Proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy/releases/tag/v7.2.0).
```

```
---
title: "Kyma 2.0"
author:
  name: "Technical Writers @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: "2.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-20"
---
```

> We are happy to announce the release of the long-awaited Kyma 2.0! This major release brings a lot of fresh air to the project: we simplified and improved many areas, and also provided some brand new features, such as Kyma Dashboard. Read on to find out what Kyma 2.0 has to offer!

Author: Is it really the approach that we use in our docs? 🤔 As far as I remember, we never capitalize the first word after a colon. I've just make a small research and found out both versions are correct, one being more BrE and one more AmE:

> "If what follows the colon is a complete sentence, some style guides (such as the American Psychological Association’s) do recommend capitalizing the word that follows the colon."
- [thesaurus.com](https://www.thesaurus.com/e/grammar/how-do-you-use-a-colon/)

> "In British English, the word following a colon is not capitalized unless it is a proper noun or an acronym. In American English, styles differ, but it is best to capitalize the first word after a colon if what follows forms two or more complete sentences."
- [grammarly.com](https://www.grammarly.com/blog/colon-2/?gclid=Cj0KCQiAtJeNBhCVARIsANJUJ2FqbAWIGeCbtqa9cToLnjYf6mEg88JQsl1aQdNF4yiYXZka_MjlcHwaAiQ2EALw_wcB&gclsrc=aw.ds)

To be honest, lowercase looks more natural to me, but we can ask other TWs 🙂

<!-- overview -->

> > **CAUTION:** In this release, authentication and authorization methods in Kyma have changed. Before upgrading to Kyma 2.0, read the [Migration Guide](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/migration-guide-1.24-2.0).

Reviewer: Note that we will have release 1.25, but here we write about migration from 1.24 to 2.0❗ 
How do we want to approach this? Edit the Release Notes for 2.0 once we have released 1.25? 🤔 
Wait with our Release Notes for 2.0 until we have released the 1.25? ...?
@strekm @jose-cortina

Reviewer 3: for sure there will be upgrade from 1.25 to 2.0. i can't advice on how to handle that though

Reviewer 4: At this time I would not expect a 1.26 and we will have 1.25.x patch(es) before we release 2.0. If we can keep this more generic (e.g. "the latest 1.x version") that would be the best, if not then "the latest 1.25.x" would also work.

Author: @jose-cortina But still, according to the current timelines, we will publish 2.0 before 1.25 (3.12) so how can we link to the migration guide that guides users on how to migrate from 1.25 to 2.0? Or do you mean we should make the migration guide itself more generic (from 1.2X -> 2.0) ? If it's the latter, I'm not sure if it'll be technically correct 🤔

Reviewer 4: @klaudiagrz As we still have release blockers being worked on, the 2.0 release will no longer be available by the 3.12. We will have another release candidate this week and still need to be able to test further before the final release can be made available.

See the overview of all changes in this release:

- [API Exposure](#api-exposure) - Exposing workloads on custom domains
- [Application Connectivity](#application-connectivity) - New way to reach registered services, Application Connectivity improvements

> - [CLI](#cli) - Switching from Minikube to k3d, revamped way of installation, values instead of configuration overrides, the `kyma test` command deprecated, the `kyma dashboard` command instead of `kyma console`

Reviewer 2: I agree, we should be consistent with the verb tense. There are also some "will" future sentences below.

- [Eventing](#eventing) - NATS Operator replaced with NATS Helm chart
- [Kyma Dashboard](#kyma-dashboard) - Kyma Console replaced with new technology, Kyma Dashboard new features, new resources views, easier resources creation
- [Observability](#observability) - Authentication for Grafana, Kiali, and Jaeger UIs, improved security for logs in Kyma Dashboard, containerd support, Prometheus mTLS, Observability services updated

> - [Security](#security) - Native Kubernetes authentication in Kyma, ORY Oathkeeper without Dex

Reviewer 5: Throughout our docs we still use ORY though and I would stick to it until we change it everywhere if this is the case

> - [Security](#security) - Native Kubernetes authentication in Kyma, ORY Oathkeeper without Dex

Author: To be honest, I'd use Ory right away. Since this is the currently used version, then why not use it? I'm also a bit afraid that the `website` repo might be forgotten when changing ORY -> Ory in our docs. We usually create PRs there just to publish new blog posts and fix broken links, but we're not really providing changes to the already-published blog posts.

- [Serverless](#serverless) - Python 3.8 deprecation
- [Service Management](#service-management) - Service Catalog deprecation
- [Website](#website) - New landing page, new documentation structure, removed roadmap

- [Known issues](#known-issues) - {List of all known issues}
- [Fixed security vulnerabilities](#fixed-security-vulnerabilities) - {List of all fixed security vulnerabilities}

## API Exposure

### Exposing workloads on custom domains

> Kyma 2.0 allows you to expose Istio workloads using custom, user-managed domains. In the previous Kyma versions, the only supported scenario was to use the main Kyma domain for API exposure. Now, provided you own a domain, you can expose any Kyma-hosted workload using this domain. In addition, a TLS certificate may be automatically generated for you. You can have multiple workloads using multiple custom domains. See the [Use a custom domain to expose a service](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/03-tutorials/00-api-exposure/apix-01-own-domain/) tutorial for details.
> 

Reviewer 2: Agreed! 
Regarding "a TLS certificate may be automatically generated for you", I wasn't sure: "may" as in "it may or may not happen", or as in "is allowed to" ?  

Maybe we can use active voice? 
Also, I feel it's less ambiguous with "your":

```suggestion
Kyma 2.0 allows you to expose Istio workloads using custom, user-managed domains. In the previous Kyma versions, the only supported scenario was to use the main Kyma domain for API exposure. Now, provided you own a domain, you can expose any Kyma-hosted workload using your domain. In addition, you can automatically create a TLS certificate. You can have multiple workloads using multiple custom domains. Read how to [use a custom domain to expose a service](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/03-tutorials/00-api-exposure/apix-01-own-domain/) tutorial for details.
```

> 

Author: Changed `this domain` -> `your domain` but I'd be cautious with this active voice. 

>In addition, you can automatically create a TLS certificate.

^ I'm not sure it's technically true tbh 🤔

## Application Connectivity

### New way to reach registered services

Kyma 2.0 brings some fresh air to the Application Connectivity area. There is now a possibility to call an external registered service without the need of creating ServiceInstances and binding them to the workload. [Central Application Gateway](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/main/components/central-application-gateway) is a new component responsible for this part.

In the future, this will be the default way of creating Application-related flows, as [Service Catalog will be removed](#service-management) and the option to create ServiceInstances and bindings will go away. While we will support the already existing flows for some time, we highly recommend you try out the new, simplified approach now.

### Application Connectivity improvements

We are reducing the complexity and resource usage of the whole Application Connectivity area. For this reason, two new components were introduced:
- Central Application Gateway
- Central Connectivity Application Validator

> The changes allow us to drop per-application deployments (Gateways and Validators). We are also looking at detaching Application Connector from Service Catalog and Rafter as well.

Reviewer 6: No, it's fine either way. Thank you 👍

> The changes allow us to drop per-application deployments (Gateways and Validators). We are also looking at detaching Application Connector from Service Catalog and Rafter as well.

Author: I'm keeping the brackets then and applying the removal of `also`, as Alex suggested.

With these changes, some of the components, such as Application Operator, will become obsolete. We will be removing them in the following releases. This, however, will have no effect on the existing functionality.

## CLI

### Switching from Minikube to k3d

> With Kyma 2.0, we're switching the local Kubernetes tool from Minikube to k3d, which allows a faster and more lightweight installation. The steps needed to set up a local and a remote cluster are now the same.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
With Kyma 2.0, we are switching the local Kubernetes tool from Minikube to k3d, which allows a faster and more lightweight installation. The steps needed to set up a local and a remote cluster are now the same.
```

> With Kyma 2.0, we're switching the local Kubernetes tool from Minikube to k3d, which allows a faster and more lightweight installation. The steps needed to set up a local and a remote cluster are now the same.

Author: Applying Maja's comments, since PP is a more suitable tense here. I just removed a dash from `local-` since `local cluster` is written separately.

### Revamped way of installation

> We fundamentally improved and simplified the way to install Kyma, phasing out the Kyma Installer component. With this change, Kyma is up to date with the current Kubernetes security, authorization, and identity standards. Cluster admins can restrict user permissions as desired; the permissions are evaluated based on the kubeconfig. There is no god-mode Service Account within the cluster anymore, and the Kyma installation is now entirely client-side.

Author: I assume Kubernetes updates their security standards and this note notifies that we are aligned with them.

The commands for installation have been updated as well:
- The `deploy` command replaces the `install` and `upgrade` commands.
- The `undeploy` command replaces the `uninstall` command.

### Values instead of configuration overrides

Instead of the deprecated `--override` flag, use the `deploy` command to change Kyma settings. With the `--values-file` flag, you can change Kyma settings by providing a plain YAML file. Alternatively, you can provide values inline with the `--value` flag. Learn more in [Change Kyma Settings](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/04-operation-guides/operations/03-change-kyma-config-values/).

### The `kyma test` command deprecated

The test framework changed and now, testing happens entirely client-side. The `kyma test` command is deprecated.  	

> ### The `kyma dashboard` command instead of `kyma console`

Reviewer 6: "The `kyma dashboard` command instead of `kyma console`" title is a little confusing. (If you decide to change it here, please change it in the overview section as well.)

```suggestion
### The `kyma console` command replaced  with `kyma dashboard`
```

To open the graphical user interface for Kyma, use the `kyma dashboard` command. The `kyma console` command is now deprecated.

## Eventing

### NATS Operator replaced with NATS Helm chart

In Kyma 2.0, we removed the [NATS Operator](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/release-1.24/components/nats-operator) and its CRDs from Eventing. Instead, we use the [NATS Helm chart](https://github.com/nats-io/k8s/tree/main/helm/charts/nats). This has no impact on the user, since all configurations have been mapped to the new NATS Helm chart.

## Kyma Dashboard

### Kyma Console replaced with new technology

> Kyma 2.0 brings you the new user interface. Kyma Dashboard, based on the [Busola project](https://github.com/kyma-project/busola), replaces the old Kyma Console.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Kyma 2.0 brings you a new user interface. Kyma Dashboard, based on the [Busola project](https://github.com/kyma-project/busola), replaces the old Kyma Console.
```

> Kyma Dashboard is decoupled from the Kyma cluster. It's not part of the initial Kyma installation, but you can add it to the cluster manually, or run it on your local machine using Kyma CLI.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Kyma Dashboard is decoupled from the Kyma cluster. It is not part of the initial Kyma installation, but you can add it to the cluster manually, or run it on your local machine using Kyma CLI.
```

Moreover, we removed the Console Backend Service and now we connect directly with the Kubernetes API.

### Kyma Dashboard new features

Kyma Dashboard provides you with many new, useful features:

- You can work with multiple clusters, switch between them, and add external clusters.
- The new deep linking functionality allows you to easily jump between your apps and the resources involved.

> - For a better accessibility, you can choose between the light and dark mode, and high contrast themes.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- For better accessibility, you can choose between light and dark mode, and high contrast themes.
```

### New resources views

> You can now view all Kyma and most Kubernetes resources in the left navigation panel of Kyma Dashboard. These are the new resources views:

Author: I'm not sure about this change tbh 🤔 It would make sense in the case of `Kyma-resources` spelling, but we actually have a space there: `Kyma resources`.

> 

Author: I'd say we should list all new features, that's what the release notes are for after all 🤔

- Service Accounts
- Cluster Overview -> Nodes
- Jobs
- Cron Jobs
- Stateful Sets
- Daemon Sets
- Gateways
- Issuers
- Certificates
- DNS Providers

> - DNS Entries

Author: I'm afraid this would look weird, but we can try it out 🙂

### Easier resources creation

> Kyma Dashboard also allows you to easily create new resources. These are the resources you can create directly on UI, by going to the appropriate resource view in the left navigation panel:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Kyma Dashboard also allows you to easily create new resources. You can create these resources directly in the UI by going to the appropriate resource view in the left navigation panel:
```

> 

Author: Same as above. But I'm curious what other TWs think 🤔

> 

Reviewer 6: Because we mention most of these in the list above, it logically follows that you can create them in the appropriate view... So I agree it makes sense to make **this** list shorter, as many of the items are a repetition of the previous list. But I'm not sure if others agree.

- Roles
- Role Bindings
- Service Accounts
- Deployment
- Cron Jobs
- Jobs
- Config Maps
- Secrets
- Issuers
- Certificates
- DNS Providers
- DNS Entries

> - Replica Sets

Reviewer 5: Should we also bold the UI views here?

Author: Not necessarily, because here we mention resources that we can create, not the views 🤔

## Observability

### Authentication for Grafana, Kiali, and Jaeger UIs

> The deprecation of Dex allows a simpler and more consistent authentication for the Observability user interfaces. Grafana, Kiali, and Jaeger UIs are no longer exposed by default. Instead, you have the flexibility to set up your preferred OIDC provider for each service. Learn how to [expose services securely](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/04-operation-guides/security/sec-06-access-expose-kiali-grafana).
> 
> As a result, all users are logged on anonymously and see the same UI. If you prefer a user-specific configuration for Grafana UI, use the Grafana login solution and switch off the OAuth proxy.

Reviewer 2: I agree with your restructuring! What if we drop the "allow" completely?

```suggestion
With the deprecation of Dex, now authentication for the Observability user interfaces is much simpler and more consistent. Grafana, Kiali, and Jaeger UIs are no longer exposed by default. Instead, you have the flexibility to set up your preferred OIDC provider for each service. 

As a result, all users are logged on anonymously and see the same UI. If you prefer a user-specific configuration for Grafana UI, use the Grafana login solution and switch off the OAuth proxy.

Read our documentation to learn how to [expose services securely](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/04-operation-guides/security/sec-06-access-expose-kiali-grafana).
```

> As a result, all users are logged on anonymously and see the same UI. If you prefer a user-specific configuration for Grafana UI, use the Grafana login solution and switch off the OAuth proxy.

Author: Migration Guide only covers manual steps that the user must follow to successfully switch from the previous to the newest version. Do we want to explain how to switch to user-specific configuration for Grafana UI in our guide? Or is it an overstretch?

> As a result, all users are logged on anonymously and see the same UI. If you prefer a user-specific configuration for Grafana UI, use the Grafana login solution and switch off the OAuth proxy.

Reviewer 2: I think this is executed purely in Grafana. We could link to the Grafana doc - not sure which one is the better match, [Log In to Grafana](https://grafana.com/tutorials/grafana-fundamentals/#log-in-to-grafana) or [Create users and teams](https://grafana.com/tutorials/create-users-and-teams/).

### Improved security for logs in Kyma Dashboard

Logs displayed in Kyma Dashboard are now based on the Kubernetes API server. This way, Loki is no longer exposed to the external network, which reduces an attack vector.

### Containerd support

With the update of Fluent Bit to version 1.8, we activated the new multiline support feature and configured support for Docker and containerd.

### Prometheus mTLS

> By enabling Prometheus mTLs, you can improve the security in your Service Mesh and keep the strict mTLS mode for custom metrics. You don't have to weaken the authentication policy when you're scraping workloads deployed in the Service Mesh. Learn more in [Enable mTLS for custom metrics](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-03-istio-monitoring#enable-m-tls-for-custom-metrics).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
By enabling Prometheus mTLs, you can improve the security in your Service Mesh and keep the strict mTLS mode for custom metrics. You don't have to weaken the authentication policy when you are scraping workloads deployed in the Service Mesh. Learn more in [Enable mTLS for custom metrics](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-03-istio-monitoring#enable-m-tls-for-custom-metrics).
```

### Observability services updated

Moreover, these Observability services have been updated:

> - FluentBit has been bumped up to the latest version 1.8.

Reviewer 2: thanks for spotting this!

- [OpenID Connect tokens](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#openid-connect-tokens)
- [Role Based Access Control (RBAC)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)

With such a change, we were able to remove many service accounts with high privileges and several other attack vectors that could lead to unauthorized access to your cluster resources. For example, static users in Dex configuration - `admin@kyma.cx` or kubeconfig pointing to `apiserver-proxy` with a token valid for several hours.

See the full list of removed authentication and authorization components:

- API Server Proxy
- Console Backend Service
- Dex
- IAM Kubeconfig Service
- Permission Controller
- UAA Activator

The list is quite big but it doesn't affect most of the production use cases. The components were used mainly for exposing Kyma UI in the development/standalone mode (static users). For such use cases, we have provided refactored, better, and faster [Kyma Dashboard](#kyma-dashboard).

### ORY Oathkeeper without Dex

> With Kyma 2.0, the Dex component becomes deprecated. Therefore, ORY Oathkeeper will no longer use Dex to verify JWT tokens. Existing API Rules that have a JWT access strategy defined must be enriched with an individual **jwks_url** pointing to a custom OpenID Connect-compliant identity provider.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
With Kyma 2.0, the Dex component is deprecated. Therefore, ORY Oathkeeper will no longer use Dex to verify JWT tokens. Existing API Rules that have a JWT access strategy defined must be enriched with an individual **jwks_url** pointing to a custom OpenID Connect-compliant identity provider.
```

Reviewer 6: Thank you, I updated the suggestion 👍

> With Kyma 2.0, the Dex component becomes deprecated. Therefore, ORY Oathkeeper will no longer use Dex to verify JWT tokens. Existing API Rules that have a JWT access strategy defined must be enriched with an individual **jwks_url** pointing to a custom OpenID Connect-compliant identity provider.

Author: Added the `parameter` word to your comment :)

## Serverless

### Python 3.8 deprecation

> In this release, we deprecate Python 3.8 and in the upcoming releases we will remove it from the list of supported runtimes. Kyma already has Python 3.9 available in Serverless and we recommend that you configure all your Python 3.8 Functions to run on the Python 3.9 runtime.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In this release, we deprecate Python 3.8 and in the upcoming releases, we will remove it from the list of supported runtimes. Kyma already has Python 3.9 available in Serverless and we recommend that you configure all your Python 3.8 Functions to run on the Python 3.9 runtime.
```

## Service Management

### Service Catalog deprecation

> As we deprecated Service Catalog, in Kyma 2.0 we recommend using service operators for Service Management. These are the examples of service operators provided by hyperscale cloud providers that you can use:

Reviewer: We indeed have already deprecated SC before, but TBH I forgot about it at first and missed the information about it here. I think our reader might not know about it either, so maybe it would be a good idea to rephrase the beginning of the sentence a bit to make it clearer. 🤔

Author: I rephrased the beginning as suggested 🙂

- [GCP](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/how-to/getting-started)
- [Azure](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator)
- [AWS](https://github.com/aws-controllers-k8s/community)

> Note that with the Service Catalog removal, it will no longer be possible to manage the existing hyperscalers' instances using Kyma, and the migration for these instances will not be provided. You will only be able to manage them from the hyperscalers' side. All the existing Secrets with credentials to services will stay in the cluster and will be still injected to you deployments and Functions.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Note that with the Service Catalog removal, it will no longer be possible to manage the existing hyperscalers' instances using Kyma, and the migration for these instances will not be provided. You will only be able to manage them from the hyperscalers' side. All the existing Secrets with credentials to services will stay in the cluster and will still be injected to your deployments and Functions.
```

> Service Catalog removal will also affect [Application Connectivity](#application-connectivity) in Kyma. Service Catalog objects will not be used anymore, and both ServiceInstances and ServiceBindings will not be required.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The Service Catalog removal will also affect [Application Connectivity](#application-connectivity) in Kyma. Service Catalog objects will not be used anymore, and both ServiceInstances and ServiceBindings will not be required.
```

Author: I'm afraid there's no escape here because this will happen in the future :/

## Website

### New landing page

> [Kyma website](https://kyma-project.io/) now has a brand new landing page. The new content explains at first glance what Kyma is, what its main features are, and what problems it solves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kyma website](https://kyma-project.io/) now has a brand new landing page. The new content gives you an overview of what Kyma is, what its main features are, and what problems it solves.
```
I think `explains at first glance` sounds a bit odd.

### New documentation structure

> We have restructured [Kyma documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/) quite significantly in the 2.0 release. We no longer divide the left navigation based on Kyma components. Instead, we structured the navigation based on the tasks you would normally face when using Kyma. We split rather long documents into shorter, more digestible chunks. On top of that, the collapsible tabs on the left-side navigation group the content into categories that help you find answers to your questions quicker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have restructured [Kyma documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/) quite significantly in the 2.0 release. We no longer divide the left navigation based on Kyma components. Instead, it's structured based on the tasks you would normally face when using Kyma. We split rather long documents into shorter, more digestible chunks. On top of that, the collapsible tabs in the left navigation panel group the content into categories that help you find answers to your questions faster.
```

- I would avoid switching between tenses (`have restructured`, `(no longer) divide`, `structured`, `split`, `group`); I'd stick to one. 
- `on the left`, but `in the (left) navigation panel`
   - also `left` is enough, and reads easier than `left-side`; 
   - added `panel` too, 'cause when I tried to search for examples, there were hardly any with `navigation` by itself in this context, plus it reads easier with the verb `group` that follows and looks like a noun at first.
- Technically, `quickly` should be graded `more quickly`, not `quicker`, but it elongates the sentence, so I changed it to `faster`.

> ### Removed roadmap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Roadmap removed
```
We want to signify here that we removed the roadmap, not use it as an adjective describing a roadmap that we are going to write about further.

Kyma Dashboard provides many new features:

- You can work with multiple clusters, switch between them, and add external clusters.
- The new deep linking functionality allows you to easily jump between your apps and the related resources.
- For better accessibility, you can choose between light and dark mode, and high contrast themes.

### New resources views

You can now view all Kyma and most Kubernetes resources in the left navigation panel of Kyma Dashboard. These are the new resources views:

- **Service Accounts**
- **Cluster Overview** > **Nodes**
- **Jobs**
- **Cron Jobs**
- **Stateful Sets**
- **Daemon Sets**
- **Gateways**
- **Issuers**
- **Certificates**
- **DNS Providers**
- **DNS Entries**

### Easier resource creation

Kyma Dashboard also allows you to easily create new resources:

- Roles
- Role Bindings
- Service Accounts
- Deployment
- Cron Jobs
- Jobs
- Config Maps
- Secrets
- Issuers
- Certificates
- DNS Providers
- DNS Entries
- Replica Sets

 You can create these resources directly in the UI by going to the appropriate resource view in the left navigation panel.

## Observability

### Authentication for Grafana, Kiali, and Jaeger UIs

> With the deprecation of Dex, now authentication for the Observability user interfaces is much simpler and more consistent. Grafana, Kiali, and Jaeger UIs are no longer exposed by default. Instead, you have the flexibility to set up your preferred OIDC provider for each service.

Reviewer 2: Thinking about it, we could simply drop the "now" completely.

Read our documentation to learn how to [expose services securely](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/04-operation-guides/security/sec-06-access-expose-kiali-grafana).

### Improved security for logs in Kyma Dashboard

Logs displayed in Kyma Dashboard are now based on the Kubernetes API server. This way, Loki is no longer exposed to the external network, which reduces the attack vector.

### Containerd support

With the update of Fluent Bit to version 1.8, we activated the new multiline support feature and configured support for Docker and containerd.

### Prometheus mTLS

By enabling Prometheus mTLS, you can improve the security in your Service Mesh and keep the strict mTLS mode for custom metrics. You don't have to weaken the authentication policy when you are scraping workloads deployed in the Service Mesh. Learn more in [Enable mTLS for custom metrics](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-03-istio-monitoring#enable-m-tls-for-custom-metrics).

### Observability services updated

With this release, we have also updated these Observability services:

> - Fluent Bit has been bumped up to the latest version, 1.8.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, read the release notes for [Fluent Bit](https://fluentbit.io/announcements/v1.8.10/), [Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v7.5/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v7-5/), [Loki](https://github.com/grafana/loki/releases/tag/v2.2.1), and [OAuth2 Proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy/releases/tag/v7.2.0).```

> - Loki and Grafana use the latest version with Apache 2 license: Loki 2.2. and Grafana 7.5.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - Prometheus Node Exporter uses version 1.1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Security

### Native Kubernetes authentication in Kyma

> With 2.0, we untangled authentication concepts in Kyma. We removed the complexity of having a built-in authentication component - Dex, and proxies to the Kubernetes API server - API Server Proxy and Console Backend Service. We decided to use plain Kubernetes authentication and authorization options:

Reviewer 6: The second sentence is hard to understand, at least for me 😄 What exactly was removed? Do the dashes divide the sentence or introduce the components? I think it might be more obvious with parenthesis, but I might be wrong.
 
```suggestion
With 2.0, we untangled authentication concepts in Kyma. We removed the complexity of having a built-in authentication component (Dex) and proxies to the Kubernetes API server (API Server Proxy and Console Backend Service). We decided to use plain Kubernetes authentication and authorization options:
```

- [Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/how-to/getting-started)
- [Azure](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator)
- [AWS](https://github.com/aws-controllers-k8s/community)

Note that with the Service Catalog removal, it will no longer be possible to manage the existing hyperscalers' instances using Kyma, and the migration for these instances will not be provided. You will only be able to manage them on the hyperscaler's side. All the existing Secrets with credentials to services will stay in the cluster and will still be injected to your deployments and Functions.

The Service Catalog removal will also affect [Application Connectivity](#application-connectivity) in Kyma. Service Catalog objects will not be used anymore, and both ServiceInstances and ServiceBindings will not be required.

## Website

### New landing page

> [Kyma website](https://kyma-project.io/) now has a brand new landing page. The new content gives you an overview of what Kyma is, what its main features are, and what problems it solves.

Reviewer 6: I know we call it "Kyma website" internally, but it may look strange for externals without a modifier like `the Kyma website` or `Kyma's website`, as it's a regular website and not `Kyma Website ™` 😄  

```suggestion
[Kyma's website](https://kyma-project.io/) now has a brand new landing page. The new content gives you an overview of what Kyma is, what its main features are, and what problems it solves.
```

### New documentation structure

> We have restructured [Kyma documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/) quite significantly in the 2.0 release. We no longer divide the left navigation based on Kyma components. Instead, it's structured based on the tasks you would normally face when using Kyma. We split rather long documents into shorter, more digestible chunks. On top of that, the collapsible tabs in the left navigation panel group the content into categories that help you find answers to your questions faster.

Reviewer 6: Same comment as above, but feel free to disagree.
```suggestion
We restructured the [Kyma documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/) quite significantly in the 2.0 release. We no longer divide the left navigation based on Kyma components. Instead, it's structured based on the tasks you would normally face when using Kyma. We split rather long documents into shorter, more digestible chunks. On top of that, the collapsible tabs in the left navigation panel group the content into categories that help you find answers to your questions faster.
```

> ```

Reviewer 8: Remove it

Author: It worked, thanks a lot! 😅

---
title: "Kyma 2.0"
author:
  name: "Klaudia Grzondziel and Nina Hingerl, Technical Writers @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: "2.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-20"
---

> ```

Reviewer 8: Remove it

Read our documentation to learn how to [expose services securely](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/04-operation-guides/security/sec-06-access-expose-kiali-grafana).

### Improved security for logs in Kyma Dashboard

Logs displayed in Kyma Dashboard are now based on the Kubernetes API server. This way, Loki is no longer exposed to the external network, which reduces an attack vector.

### Containerd support

With the update of Fluent Bit to version 1.8, we activated the new multiline support feature and configured support for Docker and containerd.

### Prometheus mTLS

By enabling Prometheus mTLS, you can improve the security in your Service Mesh and keep the strict mTLS mode for custom metrics. You don't have to weaken the authentication policy when you are scraping workloads deployed in the Service Mesh. Learn more in [Enable mTLS for custom metrics](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-03-istio-monitoring#enable-m-tls-for-custom-metrics).

### Observability services updated

> With this release, we have also updated these Observability services:

Reviewer 2: The Fluent Bit and Grafana updates are already mentioned in the [1.25 release note](https://github.com/kyma-project/website/pull/797/files). Clarifying with @a-thaler.

Reviewer 2: I'm going to take another look to verify the correct versions a week or two before K2.0 release. Things may change again till then :D

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this release, we have also refreshed Observability a bit (no pun intended). Fluent Bit has been upgraded to the latest version 1.8.10, Grafana got a minor upgrade to 7.5.11, Loki was bumped to 2.2.1, and OAuth2 Proxy was bumped to version 7.2.0.
```
